okay let's talk about the new apple
watch the series six
so this is the first apple watch that
i've wanted to
own or to wear for like over five years
i bought the very first generation apple
watch but i didn't really love it like
it just
you know it was cool but it just wasn't
for me i just didn't love the look of it
i also didn't find it particularly
useful
for my life back then but there's two
things that have popped up
that made me interested in the series
six number one
the blood oxygen sensor so the ability
to measure the
o2 saturation in your blood it's
something that i'm familiar with in my
regular work and
it's just we'll get into it but that was
something i was interested in but number
two
and there's a more personal reason i am
i feel old i am old and i'm about to
roll into 40 in a few months
and i've just realized that my actual
health like
my sleeping habits my cardiovascular
health
all that stuff is starting to it's
starting to slide like i have two kids
now
and i mean this is a very personal video
but i have two kids
and i feel like my health not that it's
poor i don't think it's poor but i'm
starting to realize that
i should i should take care of it and i
and i wanted to pick up a tool
to assist in that stuff so we'll get
into at the end but the first thing
first
uh let's talk about the pulse oximeter
actually before that let's talk real
quickly about the solo loop so the solo
loop
is the watch band or one of the new
watch bands that
apple is offering this year it's this
giant rubber band
and i like it like it's super
comfortable more comfortable than
a regular strap with a clasp and it's
easier to take on and off than i thought
it would be so if you're interested in
the solo loop
it gets my whole hearted recommendation
i just wish it came in better colors but
i'm sure there's gonna be some third
party guys doing it
okay the blood oxygen sensor so this is
measuring the amount of oxygen
that's bound to hemoglobin that's
floating around in your blood
expressed as a percentage and at 100
that would mean that your blood is in
theory
maximally enriched with oxygen now
this measurement o2 saturation
is not like a casual measurement it's
normally used to monitor things it's not
just like you know what's the
temperature today
check it's not normally for that it's
normally used to measure certain
conditions or to monitor
certain conditions and especially with
the current pandemic
because covid is a pulmonary disease
like it affects your lungs
this can be a very useful tool but in my
opinion this
is not reliable or accurate enough
in the current like the in the way that
it's used
so the hardware is excellent but i've
noticed that when you have
on your wrist and it's measuring off of
your wrist this is a really bad
really bad sight to measuring o2
saturation
normally with pulse oximetry you want to
measure like through a meaty part
of like like your fingertip or something
right where the light has
a lot of you know it can travel through
something and you can measure it but
because this is a wrist mounted watch
you're reliant on a reflection
they're shining light on your wrist and
it's reflecting back and the sensor is
reading
that reflected light and it is very
difficult for hardware to do that
reliably and or accurately now i've
noticed
if you take this thing off of your wrist
and you use it on your fingertip
it's awesome this thing measures up like
i measured it on this thing and i
compared it to a regular
pulse oximeter it seems very accurate
and i never get error messages saying
that it can't get a reading
but the thing is this device is often
mounted on your wrist
that's how the vast majority of users
are will be measuring their o2
saturation
and it's just number one not a great
site and number two
this is the big thing it's almost
useless information
if it's not accurate then the number is
meaningless
it's like a temperature right imagine
have thermometer that's like plus or
minus
seven right it's like how useful is that
information
do you have a fever maybe maybe not
how do you know you measure it 10 times
it's like how right it's
it's there's a there's a weird thing i'm
glad
that this tech exists but there's no
instructions on apple's site as to like
you know take it off and use your finger
it's weird that this tech is in there
given the inaccuracies that the wrist
mounted measurement seems to have
but i'll be completely honest i think
it's really cool that it's in there i
think it's awesome i just feel like the
messaging around it
could be different okay let's move off
this nerdy sweaty o2 sad stuff because
that
is well the thing the reason why i went
so deep on it is because that
is the primary feature that is different
this year between the series six and the
series five like that's
it's how they're marketing and it's just
it is the primary feature so that's why
i went
a little ham on that thing okay uh let's
talk about
just real briefly my interest in this
device as a fitness tracker so
apple has an upcoming service it's
called apple fitness plus
it's a paid service that's supposed to
be coming out at the end of the year and
it's used in conjunction
with the apple watch where it can
monitor your heart rate and give you
feedback to your actual workouts
it's an interesting idea and i want to
give that thing a solid run
but it's not out yet so i'm just using
the apple watch as a basic fitness
tracker
thing is i have forgotten how good the
apple watch is
at the whole gamification of fitness and
just keeping track of things not that
it's super fun but it's
more enjoyable to have metrics and to
have goals that you can chase instead of
not having any of that stuff the other
thing i've noticed is well
sleep so this has a decent sleep tracker
i've never actually used one before so
i'm someone who sleeps around four maybe
five hours a night
and it's not great like i've always been
told like everyone always tells me you
gotta sleep more
but not only do i now have like
empirical evidence that i'm sleeping
poorly
but there's a good number of tools and
apps to help me make changes in my
personal life
for health so i feel like if you're
someone who's interested in stuff like
this
uh i mean just stay tuned in a few
months i will
do i'll be doing a follow-up for sure
like just the process of what this was
like for
fitness interests but for people that
are interested in this device for
pulse oximetry or measuring of blood
o2 saturation
there's probably better ways to do it
there is one last thing i want to talk
about
it's the battery life so the series six
has a slightly bigger battery than the
series five
and if you turn off the ozone display i
can actually comfortably hit
two days of battery life on this new
series six which is
a big plus in my books just charging
this thing less okay
that finally wraps up this video hope
you guys enjoyed it thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it
i'll see you guys next time